Ai chatgpt (#1829)
Codecademy/docs: content/ai/concepts/chatgpt/chatgpt.md

---
Title: 'ChatGPT'
Description: 'ChatGPT is a publically available web-based chatbot and API interface created by OpenAI. It connects to a large language model (LLM) called GPT (Generative Pre-Trained Transformer). GPT includes some of the largest models ever created. After the model training, there is further fine-tuning to improve its generated responses.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Large Language Model'
  - 'Transformers'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Transformers'
  - 'Embeddings'
  - 'Prompts'
  - 'Prompt Engineering'
  - 'Attention'
CatalogContent:
  - 'machine-learning'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

`ChatGPT` is a publically available web-based chatbot and API interface created by `OpenAI`. It connects to a large language model (LLM) called GPT (Generative Pre-Trained Transformer). GPT includes some of the largest models ever created. After the model training, there is further fine-tuning to improve its generated responses.

## How ChatGPT Works

> `ChatGPT` is part of a new group of LLM models which are now made available by a technology called `Transformers`. Other notable and similar LLM models include `BERT` used by Google to understand user searches, `DALL-E` which can generate images, and `GPT-Neo` an promising open source LLM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ChatGPT is part of a new group of LLM models that are now made available by a technology called **transformers**. Other notable and similar LLM models include **BERT**, used by Google to understand user searches; **DALL-E**, which can generate images; and **GPT-Neo**, a promising open-source LLM.
```

Author: resolved issues

ChatGPT is the packaging of a set of trained LLMs into a chatbot and developer friendly interface. This has created a system where there is low barrier to entry and almost everyone can start using the LLM.

### What is the relation to Internet Search?

> `ChatGPT` is trained by using vast quantities of data from the Internet. However LLMs are different from Internet search engines:

Reviewer: The points after should end with periods.

> `ChatGPT` is trained by using vast quantities of data from the Internet. However LLMs are different from Internet search engines:

Author: Fixed these issues including capitalization, punctuation, and sentence.

- No ongoing daily web crawlers and updates
- Data can be out of date. `ChatGPT 3` uses data from 2021.
- The size of the data trained in the model
- ChatGPT uses a type of fine-tuning called Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF)
- ChatGPT-specific approaches including `prompts`, `embeddings`, and parameters such as `temperature`.

## History of ChatGPT

There were several generations of AI technologies that have led up to ChatGPT.

### Feed Forward Networks

> Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are a class of computational functions inspired by how neurons work in the human brain. Neurons are arranged in layers and training occurs by guiding the network to know correct from incorrect answers. These are called feed-forward networks because signals move forward through the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Artificial Neural Networks** (ANNs) are a class of computational functions inspired by how neurons work in the human brain. Neurons are arranged in layers and training occurs by guiding the network to differentiate between correct and incorrect answers. These are called feed-forward networks because signals move forward through the system.
```

Author: Resolved issues

> One example of a common ANN is called Convolutional Neural network (CNN). These are commonly used in image recognition. You can think of a convolution as a filter applied to the image to make things like edges or specific features stand out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One example of a common ANN is a **Convolutional Neural network**(CNN). These are commonly used in image recognition. A *convolution* can be thought of as a filter applied to the image to make things like edges or specific features stand out.
```

Author: Resovled issues

### Recurrent Neural Networks

> One limitation of ANNs is that they don’t have the concept of time sequences and the input size is fixed. So for language processing where you have a sequence of words or a sentence, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) were created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One limitation of ANNs is that they don’t have the concept of time sequences and the input size is fixed. So for language processing where a sequence of words or a sentence exists, **Recurrent Neural Networks** (RNNs) were created.
```

> RNNs feed decision results back in the system. So for example if we wanted to translate the sentence “What time is it?” by the time the word “it” is encountered, the system would already know all about the question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RNNs feed decision results back into the system. So for example, if the sentence “What time is it?” were to be translated, when the word “it” is encountered, the system would already know all about the question.
```

> While RNNs have been very useful in doing language translation, they do not scale well with large amounts of information. Also computation can not be done in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While RNNs are very useful for language translation, they do not scale well with large amounts of information. Also, computations cannot be done in parallel.
```

Author: Fixed

### Breakthrough with Transformers

> The breakthrough that allowed BERT and ChatGPT-based models is called `Transformers`. This was introduced in a paper from 2019 entitled `“Attention is all you need”`. It was presented as a way to build machine translation but to have much faster parallel execution. It also has a new concept called `Self Attention` to further make sense of long language sequences. It creates connections between different parts of the sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The breakthrough that allowed BERT and ChatGPT-based models is called **transformers**,  introduced in a paper from 2019 entitled *“Attention is all you need”*. It was presented as a way to build machine translation but to have much faster parallel execution. It also introduced a new concept called *Self Attention* to further make sense of long language sequences. It creates connections between different parts of the sequence.
```

> So how does it all really work? In the `Transformer` based model each word is transformed into a token. As tokens are read as part of an input sentence the model starts predicting what the output should be - similar in concept to sentence completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So how does it all work? In the transformer-based model, each word is transformed into a token. As tokens are read as part of an input sentence the model starts predicting what the output should be - similar in concept to sentence completion.
```

Author: Fixed

> Due to the use of `Transformers` in creating the model, the potential output is not just a prediction of the next word. Because the model is trained with deep understanding and `Attention` whole sentences and groupings of text are generated. The model used by ChatGPT can accept several thousand tokens as input .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the use of transformers in creating the model, the potential output is not just a prediction of the next word. Because the model is trained with deep understanding and "attention", whole sentences and groupings of text are generated. The model used by ChatGPT can accept several thousand tokens as input.
```

Author: Resolved issues

## Risks and Limitations

### Misinformation

> Because current LLMs are trained against data sets from some period of time in the past they don't always give accurate information. Also their correctness is only as good as the data they are trained with. This doesn't always result in accurate results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because current LLMs are trained against data sets from some period in the past, they don't always give accurate information. Also, their correctness is only as good as the data they are trained with. This doesn't always lead to accurate results.
```

Author: Resolved issues

### Disinformation

> ChatGPT and LLMs in general often give confident and plausible generated results but they are wrong or do not make sense. In AI these are called Hallucinations. With prompt engineering, ChatGPT can be told to not give an answer unless it has high confidence in the results. This can reduce hallucinations but not completely solve the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ChatGPT and LLMs in general often give confident and plausible generated results, but sometimes they are wrong or do not make sense. In AI, these are called **hallucinations**. With prompt engineering, ChatGPT can be told to not give an answer unless it has high confidence in the results. This can reduce hallucinations but not completely solve the problem.
```

Author: Resolved issues.

### Data Security

Using ChatGPT requires the sending of information over the internet. Sending personal or sensitive information presents a possible security risk.

### Bias

> The internet is full of biased negative information. For ChatGPT to be useful this information needs to be filtered so it is not produced in responses. OpenAI has identified this as a major concern with ChatGPT and LLMs in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The internet is full of biased negative information. For ChatGPT to be useful, this information needs to be filtered so that it is not produced in responses. OpenAI has identified this as a major concern with ChatGPT and LLMs in general.
```

Author: Resolved issues

## The Future

### Usage

ChatGPT was intended to be a demonstration product. Companies around the world are evaluating how to use this new technology. There are usage scenarios that may reduce or replace some work being performed by human beings. These include:

- Processing and summarizing text
- Filtering human-generated content
- Creating advanced chatbots
- Writing code
- Customer service and support
- Generating styled documents (i.e. resumes, proposals, emails)
- Much more!

### Cost

> Costs to train a LLM can be in the millions of dollars - so to train frequently may hit commercial challenges. After training each `inference` or transaction costs some amount of money and computing power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Costs to train a LLM can be in the millions of dollars - so training frequently may hit commercial challenges. After training, each *inference* or transaction costs some amount of money and computing power.
```

Author: Resolved issues

---
Title: 'ChatGPT'
Description: 'ChatGPT is a publically available web-based chatbot and API interface created by OpenAI. It connects to a large language model (LLM) called GPT (Generative Pre-Trained Transformer). GPT includes some of the largest models ever created. After the model training, there is further fine-tuning to improve its generated responses.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Large Language Model'
  - 'Transformers'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Transformers'
  - 'Embeddings'
  - 'Prompts'
  - 'Prompt Engineering'
  - 'Attention'
CatalogContent:
  - 'machine-learning'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

`ChatGPT` is a publically available web-based chatbot and API interface created by `OpenAI`. It connects to a large language model (LLM) called GPT (Generative Pre-Trained Transformer). GPT includes some of the largest models ever created. After the model training, there is further fine-tuning to improve its generated responses.

> ## How ChatGPT Works

Reviewer 2: Interestingly, we don't mention (and ChatGPT didn't suggest to us) to talk about Transformers or LLMs. We talk about it being a GAN (Generative Adversarial Networks) and will have a whole lesson on how those work.

Author: I don't think ChatGPT is a GAN. If it stands for generative pre-trained transformer - we should be talking about transformers no?

`ChatGPT` is part of a new group of LLM models which are now made available by a technology called `Transformers`. Other notable and similar LLM models include `BERT` used by Google to understand user searches, `DALL-E` which can generate images, and `GPT-Neo` an promising open source LLM.

ChatGPT is the packaging of a set of trained LLMs into a chatbot and developer friendly interface. This has created a system where there is low barrier to entry and almost everyone can start using the LLM.

### What is the relation to Internet Search?

`ChatGPT` is trained by using vast quantities of data from the Internet. However LLMs are different from Internet search engines:

> - No ongoing daily web crawlers and updates

Reviewer 2: Worth mentioning somewhere that (I think version 3?) only goes through 2021.

Author: Yes I will add

- The size of the data trained in the model

> - ChatGPT uses a type of fine-tuning called Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF)

Reviewer 2: Nitya has told me that this may have differed between GPT 1 vs 2 vs 3. 2 and 3 used unsupervised learning.

Author: ChatGPT is based on GPT3 which uses RLHF.

- ChatGPT-specific approaches including `prompts`, `embeddings`, and parameters such as `temperature`.

> ## History of ChatGPT

Reviewer 2: We don't have this section in the course, but is likely fine to include.

### Breakthrough with Transformers

The breakthrough that allowed BERT and ChatGPT-based models is called `Transformers`. This was introduced in a paper from 2019 entitled `“Attention is all you need”`. It was presented as a way to build machine translation but to have much faster parallel execution. It also has a new concept called `Self Attention` to further make sense of long language sequences. It creates connections between different parts of the sequence.

So how does it all really work? In the `Transformer` based model each word is transformed into a token. As tokens are read as part of an input sentence the model starts predicting what the output should be - similar in concept to sentence completion.

Due to the use of `Transformers` in creating the model, the potential output is not just a prediction of the next word. Because the model is trained with deep understanding and `Attention` whole sentences and groupings of text are generated. The model used by ChatGPT can accept several thousand tokens as input .

> ## Challenges

Reviewer 2: For challenges (or, as we label it: Risks and Limitations), we mention:
- misinformation (being incorrect)
- disinformation (being misleading)
- bias
- data security (what are they doing with your data?)

Author: I'll change to these labels.

### Hallucinations

> ChatGPT and LLMs in general often give confident and plausible generated results but they are wrong or do not make sense. In AI these are called Hallucinations. With prompt engineering, ChatGPT can be told to not give an answer unless it has high confidence in the results.

Reviewer 2: Does this completely solve Hallucinations?

Author: No I should mention it only reduces it.

Author: Added a note about this.

### Plagiarism and cheating

Because ChatGPT works so well many people are concerned about its usage. You could use ChatGPT to generate a 500-word essay that convincingly looks like a person wrote it. In some tests, it has been proven ChatGPT could answer many common standardized tests.

### Bias

The internet is full of biased negative information. For ChatGPT to be useful this information needs to be filtered so it is not produced in responses. OpenAI has identified this as a major concern with ChatGPT and LLMs in general.

## The Future

> ### Usage

Reviewer 2: In the course, we will mention:
- Having a conversation with ChatGPT
- Processing/summarizing text
- Creating writing prompts or writing for someone (eg emails)
- For fun! :D 
- Content creation and marketing
- Customer service and support
- Areas to explore: Writing job descriptions, technical documentation, draft proposals???
- What can't it replace? Programmers, HR, etc.

Author: I'll incorporate some of these into the usage scenarios.
